So setting the language and fixing markup.
So one easy win that you can
do on a lot of web pages, and
this is something that Ax will advise you
to do, is to put a language on your pages.
So if there's one overall language,
English, for example,
we can put html Lang = en for English.
And that will actually have a pretty
profound effect on assistive technology.
So depending on how the content is,
what language it's in,
the screen reader will change its
pronunciation and it's really cool.
So for sites with multiple languages,
maybe you could change it in a template,
depending on what language
you're rendering out.
There is page-level versus
element-level language.
So if you have a site that's
mostly in English, but
you have some elements on it that are in
French or some other language, you can
actually kind of override the page-level
language on a per element basis.
So if I have a paragraph with
Lang = fr within a Lang = en,
that one paragraph will sound [FOREIGN].
[LAUGH] It will sound different, and
you can hear it in the screen reader.
It's pretty awesome.
So if you had a whole page of French and
it was marked up as Lang = en,
it would be excruciating
[LAUGH] to try and listen to.
It would be the worst pronunciation ever.
But actually, the screen reader can
do a way better job if you tell it
what language it needs to be in.
I think we even have an example.
So I have a stack blitz here in the
project that we can actually fire up and
test.
So let's try that real quick.
I am going to put it on preview mode.
So StackBlitz itself is
probably not that accessible.
A lot of these tools,
I want them to be more accessible.
But often when you're testing, if you can
open the little demo project in a new
window, sometimes that'll isolate it so
that the screen reader doesn't get
tripped up on other UI
elements of the tool itself.
So I'm gonna turn on voiceover
with function command F5.
>> Navigation, visited link,
heading level one,
web accessibility,
v3 home frame preview page, group.
>> So you can get into it.
>> You are currently on a frame
to an https://webdashflat.
https://web-dashplatform-li6gwd, heading
level 2, Boef Bourgignon,
heading level 1, French Recipes,
heading level 2, Boef Bourgignon.
You are currently on the heading
level 2 [CROSSTALK].
>> That didn't work did it [LAUGH]?
>> [FOREIGN] So that's what it
sounds like when it doesn't work.
[LAUGH] That was so
terrible, jet hub anyone?
>> VoiceOver off.
>> Yeah, that didn't work at all.
So that could be Chrome.
It totally worked when I tested it,
so it does have the Lang fr,
that could be reason enough
to open this up in Safari.
So because I am committed to this
I'm going to go open it up and see.
We'll see maybe our first difference,
if StackBlitz will load.
It will, okay, so I'm gonna fire
it up again, function command F5.
>> Voiceover on Safari, set recipes,
you are current, heading level 1,
heading level 2, Boeuf Bourguignon.
>> Nope.
>> You are current,
heading level 1, French Recipes.
You are heading level 2,
Boeuf Bourguignon.
>> That's so terrible.
>> You are currently on the heading
level 2 inside of the frame.
Character palette, close button Safari,
setting a language and
fixed voice over off.
>> Sad face emoji.
Well, the demo gods were not blessing
us [LAUGH] in this example and
I have no idea why,
maybe it's something with StackBlitz.
I think when I tested it, it was not
embedded within the slide window itself,
so we have to test stuff periodically,
and I swear Voiceover will do that
sometimes where you're, wait,
that worked and then it didn't.
But we're embedding
windows within windows so
all bets are off if it'll be beef
bojignon or boeuf bourguignon.
That's pretty funny, [LAUGH] At least
you can see the kind of what happens
when you don't have the attribute so
it's informative in that way.
Fun [LAUGH], okay, well,
I'm going to close out of Safari.
That was a fun little experiment.
>> I often find engineers use the button
tag for a link usually because they need
an on click handler for
something like analytics.
For example, pushing to the route
in a function when the next router,
instead of using an actual link.
What would be the best way to correctly
handle this so that a link is a link, but
it also calls a function?
>> Well, I think, yeah,
it's gonna depend on your router, for one.
I haven't had to use a router
in a little while, and
you'll learn why,
[LAUGH] this week for sure.
But I think if,
I've seen a lot of buttons that should be
links in the code base I'm working on.
And I think sometimes
styles are the constraint.
If you're dealing with old styles
that everyone's afraid to touch,
that can be a reason
why the stuff persists.
So to try and solve that,
yeah, I guess I'd have to see,
can you put maybe an event listener on
the element and the h or f for the link.
That's just kind of talking you through
my process of what I would try,
is to see if you can register a click
event that doesn't do any navigating but
will kind of capture that analytics event,
especially if it's client side routed.
I guess one thing I
would be looking out for
is if the default html
navigation with href,
if it wasn't client-side routed,
it would probably refresh and
you may or may not see that click
event to capture that analytics event.
But if it is client-side routed,
it's not gonna refresh the page.
So theoretically, maybe you could
do a click event and an href, but
I'm not totally certain that would work.
That's kinda just my thought process,
cuz often there are constraints like that,
and we're like,
why does this happen this way?
It's not by choice.
It's just because of whatever we're
trying to navigate through at work.
So I think in an ideal world, we do want
to try and make links look like links and
buttons look like buttons, but
I can say from experience that
that's just not always what happens.